Because of the terrible performance of TCP protocol in data center environment,
DCTCP has been proposed as a TCP replacement, which uses a simple marking mecha
-nism at switches and a few amendments at end hosts to adjust congestion window
based on the extent of the congestion in networks. Thus, DCTCP can make a proper
tradeoff between high throughput and low latency. However, through our observation,
we discover that DCTCP causes severe oscillation of queue under some parameters
and network configuration. Our perceptual analysis concludes that the rough 
single-threshold marking mechanism may be the essential reason. Therefore, we
propose Double-Threshold DCTCP as an improvement of DCTCP. Then, by applying
describing function method in nonlinear control theory, we analyze
the stability of both DCTCP and Double-Threshold DCTCP, and
theoretically explain why Double-Threshold DCTCP is more stable
than DCTCP. At last, we validate theoretical analysis and conclude
that the Double- Threshold DCTCP can achieve smaller queue, and the 
queue length of Double-Threshold DCTCP is less sensitive to the growing
number of flows. Further, Double-Threshold DCTCP can postpone the throughput
collapse caused by Incast traffic and reduce the tail latency in completion 
time experiment. 
Double-threshold DCTCP (DT-DCTCP) improves the
DCTCP algorithm by introducing a new marking mechanism
for detecting the network congestion. As shown in Fig. 8, DTDCTCP
uses two thresholds ‘K1’ and ‘K2’ to share the load
of a single threshold ‘K’ which is used in DCTCP. Among
the two thresholds, ‘K1’ is used to start the ECN marking
in advance, and the threshold ‘K2’ is used to stop the ECN
marking. The original intention of double threshold instead
of a single threshold is to control the oscillation of queue
length which is caused by the nonlinear control scheme at the
switches. When the queue length increases beyond the lower
threshold ‘K1’, the network is having a potential congestion,
and should set CE to inform the senders to decrease their
window size.
That is, in DT-DCTCP the packet will be marked when
the queue length increases to ‘K1’. On the other hand, when
the queue length decreases under the high threshold ‘K2’, the
switch should release the message of congestion. By using
the describing function (DF) approach, DT-DCTCP analyzed
that it has more stability in queue than DCTCP and thereby
solved the issue of TCP Incast in data center networks.
